# Data Dictionary

Project Type +	Title	Description
- 1: Emergency Shelter, A project that offers temporary shelter (lodging) for the homeless in general or for specific populations of the homeless. Requirements and limitations may vary by program, and will be specified by the funder.
- 2: Transitional Housing, A project that provides temporary lodging and is designed to facilitate the movement of homeless individuals and families into permanent housing within a specified period of time, but no longer than 24 months. Requirements and limitations may vary by program, and will be specified by the funder.
- 3: PH, Permanent Supportive Housing (disability required for entry)	A project that offers permanent housing and supportive services to assist homeless persons with a disability (individuals with disabilities or families in which one adult or child has a disability) to live independently.
- 4: Street Outreach	A project that offers services necessary to reach out to unsheltered homeless people, connect them with emergency shelter, housing, or critical services, and provide urgent, non-facility-based care to unsheltered homeless people who are unwilling or unable to access emergency shelter, housing, or an appropriate health facility. Only persons who are “street homeless” should be entered into a street outreach project. Projects that also serve persons other than “street homeless” must have two separate projects to be set up in an HMIS – one ‘Street Outreach’ and the other ‘Services Only.’
- 5: NOT USED	
- 6: Services OnlyA project that offers only stand-alone supportive services (other than outreach) to address the special needs of participants (such as child care, employment assistance, and transportation services) and has associated housing outcomes.
- 7: Other A project that offers services, but does not provide lodging, and cannot otherwise be categorized as another project type, per above. Any project that provides only stand-alone supportive services (other than outreach) and has no associated housing outcomes should be typed as ‘Other.’ For example, a project funded to provide child care for persons in permanent housing or a dental care project funded to serve homeless clients should be typed ‘Other.’ A project funded to provide ongoing case management with associated housing outcomes should be typed ‘Services Only.’
- 8: Safe Haven A project that offers supportive housing that (1) serves hard to reach homeless persons with severe mental illness who came from the streets and have been unwilling or unable to participate in supportive services; (2) provides 24-hour residence for eligible persons for an unspecified period; (3) has an overnight capacity limited to 25 or fewer persons; and (4) provides low demand services and referrals for the residents.
- 9: PH, Housing Only	A project that offers permanent housing for persons who are homeless, but does not make supportive services available as part of the project.
- 10: PH, Housing with Services (no disability required for entry)	A project that offers permanent housing and supportive services to assist homeless persons to live independently, but does not limit eligibility to individuals with disabilities or families in which one adult or child has a disability.
- 11: Day Shelter,	A project that offers daytime facilities and services (no lodging) for persons who are homeless.
- 12: Homelessness Prevention,	A project that offers services and/or financial assistance necessary to prevent a person from moving into an emergency shelter or place not meant for human habitation.
- 13:	PH Rapid Re-Housing	A permanent housing project that provides housing relocation and stabilization services and short- and/or medium-term rental assistance as necessary to help a homeless individual or family move as quickly as possible into permanent housing and achieve stability in that housing.
- 14:	Coordinated Assessment A project that administers the continuum’s centralized or coordinated process to coordinate assessment and referral of individuals and families seeking housing or services, including use of a comprehensive and standardized assessment tool.
